>> Woodruff: THE RISING OFFICIAL
DEATH TOLL FROM THE MASSIVE
MUDSLIDE IN WASHINGTON STATE.
RESCUE TEAMS, SEARCH DOGS AND
BULLDOZERS CONTINUED DIGGING
THROUGH FEET OF MUCK AND DEBRIS.
GOOD EVENING, I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
>> Ifill: AND I'M GWEN IFILL.
ALSO AHEAD, FROM THE EXTRAVAGANT
ESTATE OF THE DEPOSED PRESIDENT,
TO THOSE STILL OCCUPYING A TENT
CITY WHERE THE PROTESTS BEGAN.
MARGARET WARNER EXPLORES
UKRAINE'S CORRUPT PAST AND MURKY
FUTURE.
>> Woodruff: PLUS, OUR
CONVERSATION WITH FORMER
PRESIDENT JIMMY CARTER.
HE WEIGHS IN ON UKRAINE, N.S.A.
SPYING AND HIS NEW CALL TO
ACTION.
ENDING VIOLENCE AND
DISCRIMINATION AGAINST WOMEN.
>> THE CRIMES AGAINST WOMEN AND
GIRLS EXCEED ALMOST ANYTHING
I'VE EVER KNOWN IN MY LIFETIME
AS FAR AS HUMAN RIGHTS ABUSES.
>> Woodruff: THOSE ARE JUST
SOME OF THE STORIES WE'RE
COVERING ON TONIGHT'S PBS
NEWSHOUR.
>> Ifill: THE NUMBERS KEPT
CLIMBING TODAY IN THAT
DEVASTATING MUDSLIDE IN
WASHINGTON STATE.
AT LEAST TWO DOZEN PEOPLE ARE
NOW BELIEVED DEAD, WITH
OFFICIALS ADDING TO THE COUNT
EVERY EVENING.
SCORES MORE ARE MISSING.
JEFFREY BROWN REPORTS ON THE
DAY'S DEVELOPMENTS.
>> Brown: DAY FIVE SINCE THE
DISASTER FOUND SEARCH TEAMS
STILL DIGGING.
THEY'VE BEEN USING EVERYTHING
FROM CADAVER DOGS TO SMALL
BULLDOZERS, AND EVEN SONAR.
RAIN HAD MADE THE ALREADY MUDDY
DEBRIS EVEN HARDER TO DIG, AND
MORE DANGEROUS.
>> IT'S SLOW GOING.
IT COULD TAKE YOU ABOUT FIVE
MINUTES TO WALK 40 FEET.
AND THEN YOU'VE GOT NAILS
STICKING OUT OF THE GROUND AND
THINGS THAT COULD HURT
YOU.
>> Brown: WITH CONDITIONS BETTER
TODAY, THE TEAMS WORKED ON,
HOLDING OUT FAINT HOPES OF
FINDING SURVIVORS, ALONG WITH
MORE BODIES.
HOW MANY MORE REMAINED AN OPEN
QUESTION.
THE SNOHOMISH COUNTY EMERGENCY
MANAGEMENT DIRECTOR SAID IN SOME
CASES, ALL THEY HAVE IS A FIRST
NAME AND AN AGE.
>> WE'RE STILL DEALING WITH THE
JOHN DOES VERSUS JOHN 58'S AND
WE'RE RECONCILING THEM, BUT
WE'RE MAKING GREAT PROGRESS.
>> Brown: THE PEOPLE OF
ARLINGTON FACED A DIFFERENT
TASK, RECONCILING THEMSELVES TO
ALL THEY'VE LOST.
>> SEVERAL DIFFERENT AREAS WHERE
THERE'S HOUSES AT AND THERE'S
AREAS WHERE THERE'S NO HOUSES
AND JUST MUD, AND THEY DON'T
HAVE LIKE, DOGS SEARCHING THOSE
AREAS.
UH, I'M SORRY, I'M JUST...
>> THAT'S OK, YOU REALLY...
>> Brown: SE GAOMTHERED TUESDAY
EVENING TO MOURN THE VICTIMS,
AND PRAY FOR THE MISSING.
>> WE'RE HERE TO SUPPORT THOSE
WHO HAVE FALLEN AND HOPE THAT
SOME LIVES ARE STILL RECOVERED.
EVEN THOSE LEADING THE SEARCH
STRUGGLED WITH QUESTIONS OF
WHETHER THE DISASTER WAS
PREVENTABLE, IN AN AREA KNOWN
FOR PAST MUDSLIDES.
>> IT HAUNTS ME BECAUSE THAT'S
NOT-- WE DID EVERYTHING THAT WE
COULD HAVE DONE AND THE
COMMUNITY DID FEEL SAFE.
THEY UNDERSTOOD THAT RISK.
AND WE WERE-- I THINK WE DID
WHAT WE COULD DO.
SOMETIMES LARGE SLIDES HAPPEN.
>> Brown: THE NATIONAL GUARD,
THE FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
AGENCY AND OTHERS HAVE NOW
AS FOR SURVIVORS AND THEIR
NEIGHBORS, THERE'S LITTLE TO DO
BUT WAIT TO FIND OUT WHO ELSE
WILL HAVE TO GRIEVE.
>> Ifill: PRESIDENT OBAMA URGED
THE NATIONS OF EUROPE TODAY TO
RE-DEDICATE THEMSELVES TO
FREEDOM.
HE USED A SPEECH IN BRUSSELS TO
LAY OUT A BROAD CASE AGAINST
RUSSIA'S ANNEXATION OF CRIMEA,
AND HE SAID IT'S A
"MOMENT OF TESTING" FOR THE
WORLD.
WE' HEALLR EXCERPTS OF THE
SPEECH, AND A REPORT BY
MARGARET WARNER FROM UKRAINE,
RIGHT AFTER THE NEWS SUMMARY.
>> Ifill: NEW CLAIMS OF
MISCONDUCT HAVE HIT THE SECRET
SERVICE.
THE AGENCY CONFIRMS THREE AGENTS
WERE RECALLED FROM THE
NETHERLANDS, THE DAY BEFORE THE
PRESIDENT ARRIVED ON HIS CURRENT
TRIP.
IT WAS WIDELY REPORTED TODAY
THAT ONE OF THE AGENTS WAS FOUND
DRUNK, IN A HOTEL HALLWAY.
THE SECRET SERVICE IMPLEMENTED
STRICTER RULES AFTER A
PROSTITUTION SCANDAL IN 2012.
IN EGYPT, GENERAL ABDUL-FATTAH
EL-SISI ANNOUNCED HE'S RESIGNED
FROM THE MILITARY AND WILL RUN
FOR PRESIDENT NEXT MONTH.
HE LED THE ARMY MOVE THAT OUSTED
FORMER ISLAMIST PRESIDENT
MOHAMMED MORSI LAST SUMMER.
MEANWHILE, THE GOVERNMENT
ORDERED TWO MORE MASS TRIALS OF
919 MORSI SUPPORTERS.
MORE THAN 500 OTHERS WERE
SENTENCED TO DEATH THIS WEEK,
AND ANOTHER 680 ARE ON TRIAL.
GOVERNMENTS, FAMILIES AND
INVESTIGATORS ALIKE MAY HAVE
THEIR BEST LEAD YET IN THE HUNT
FOR THE MISSING MALAYSIAN
JETLINER.
IT CAME TODAY AS OFFICIALS
ANNOUNCED A FRENCH SATELLITE
SPOTTED A POSSIBLE FULL-SCALE
DEBRIS FIELD IN THE SOUTHERN
INDIAN OCEAN.
WE HAVE A REPORT FROM LUCY
WATSON OF INDEPENDENT
TELEVISION, BED ASIN BEIJING.
>> THESE ARE THE VISUAL IMAGES
AND THE WHITE DOTS WERE THE
DEBRIS.
>> Reporter: WE'VE SEEN IMAGES
LIKE THESE BEFORE BUT NOT SO
MANY.
122 POTENTIAL OBJECTS NOW
SPOTTED BY FRENCH SATELLITES.
>> SOME OBJECTS WERE A METER IN
LENGTH.
OTHERS WERE AS MUCH AS 23 METERS
IN LENGTH.
SOME OF THE OBJECTS APPEARED TO
BE BRIGHT POSSIBLY INDICATING
SOLID MATERIAL.
>> Reporter: POSSIBLY HE SAID
YET AGAIN A WORD OF CAUTION.
BUT THE EVIDENCE IS NOW
BUILDING.
THE SEARCH IS NOW FOCUSED 1,550
MILES OFF THE COAST OF PERTH.
IT'S A 622,000 SQUARE MILE
STRETCH.
AND THAT PART OF THE OCEAN HAS
DEPTHS OF 23,000 FEET WITH
COMPLEX TERRAIN AND UNDERSEA
VOLCANOS.
SO FROM FIRST LIGHT THOSE SEARCH
EFFORTS MUST BEGIN, EVERY DAY,
TRYING TO HONE IN ON THE TRUTH.
SENSITIVITY TOWARD THOSE
MISSING.
YES, WE HAVE MADE MISTAKES AND
THAT HAD A CALMING EFFECT ON THE
RELATIVES.
THAT COMBINED WITH MULTIPLE
POSSIBLY SIGHTINGS BY FRENCH
SATELLITE, SEEMED TO BE MORE OF
A RESIGNATION AND ACCEPTANCE NOW
OF THEIR LOSS.
AND THAT OFFICIAL MALAYSANI
SENTIMENT RELAYED TO RELATIVES
IN BEIJING TODAY IS SHARED BY
THOSE WHO ARE DESPERATE FOR
DEFINITIVE NEWS.
>> Ifill: A FEDERAL JURY IN
NEW YORK CONVICTED OSAMA BIN
LADEN'S SON-IN-LAW TODAY OF
CONSPIRING TO KILL AMERICANS.
SULAIMAN ABU GHAITH ACTED AS
CHIEF AL-QAEDA SPOKESMAN.
HE WAS ATURFEED IN  VIDEOS USED
TO RECRUIT NEW FOLLOWERS AFTER
THE 9/11 ATTACKS.
ABU GHAITH IS THE MOST SENIOR
MEMBER OF AL-QAEDA TO BE TRIED
ON U.S. SOIL SINCE THEN.
HE COULD RECEIVE LIFE IN PRISON.
AN OKLAHOMA JUDGE HAS VOIDED THE
STATE'S DEATH PENALTY LAW
BECAUSE IT BARS DISCLOSURES
ABOUT LETHAL INJECTIONS.
THE JUDGE RULED, THAT PROVISION
RENDERS THE ENTIRE STATUTE
UNCONSTITUTIONAL.
TWO DEATH ROW INMATES BROUGHT
SUIT, DEMANDING TO KNOW THE
SOURCE OF THE DRUGS THAT WILL BE
USED IN THEIR EXECUTIONS.
AMERICANS WHO SAY THEY'RE UNABLE
TO SIGN UP FOR HEALTH COVERAGE
BY MARCH 31ST ARE GETTING MORE
TIME.
THE OBAMA ADMINISTRATION SAID
TODAY IT WOULD ALLOW PEOPLE
ALREADY IN THE PROCESS OF
ENROLLING UNTIL APRIL 15TH TO
FINISH SIGNING UP.
BUT THEY DON'T HAVE TO PROVIDE
PROOF OF THEIR PRIOR INTENTIONS.
THAT WAIVER DREW SCORN FROM
HOUSE SPEAKER JOHN BOEHNER AND
OTHER REPUBLICANS.
THE LAW SAYS THAT A MOMENT STOPS
AT THE END OF MARCH.
THAT'S WHAT THE LAW SAYS.
I'VE GOT TO LIVE BY THE LAW,
YOU'VE GOT TO LIVE BY THE LAW,
OTHER PEOPLE HAVE TO LIVE BY THE
LAW AND THE PRESIDENT NEEDS TO
LIVE BY THE
>> Ifill: DEMOCRATS DISMISSED
BOEHNER'S CRITICISM.
SENATE MAJORITY LEADER HARRY
REID SAID HOUSE REPUBLICANS
DON'T CARE ABOUT FIXING HEALTH
CAE, ORNLY ABOUT VOTING AGAIN
AND AGAIN TO REPEAL THE LAW.
>> THE JOKE I SAY TO MY DEAR
FRIEND, JOHN BOEHNER, IS HIM FOR
HAVING MORE THAN SIXTY VOTES
OVER THERE TO TERMINATE
OBAMACARE.
I JUST THINK WE ARE AT A POINT
NOW WHERE IT REALLY DOES APPEAR
TO BE EXTREMELY DISINGENUOUS.
THAT THEY OPPOSE ANYTHING THAT'S
GOOD ABOUT OBAMACARE.
>> Ifill: THE ADMINISTRATION IS
HOPING FOR SIX MILLION PEOPLE TO
ENROLL THROUGH THE FEDERAL
EXCHANGE.
OFFICIALS ON BOTH SIDES OF THE
COUNTRY WERE CAUGHT UP IN PUBLIC
CORRUPTION CASES TODAY.
THE MAYOR OF CHARLOTTE, NORTH
CAROLINA, PATRICK CANNON,
WAS ARRESTED ON CHARGES OF
TAKING NEARLY $50,000 IN BRIBES.
AND IN SAN FRANCISCO, F.B.I.
AGENTS ARRESTED CALIFORNIA STATE
SENATOR LELAND YEE AND SEARCHED
HIS OFFICE IN THE STATE CAPITOL.
IT'S PART OF A SEPARATE
CORRUPTION PROBE.
A RULING IN CHICAGO TODAY COULD
LET COLLEGE ATHLETES JOIN
UNIONS.
THE REGIONAL OFFICE OF THE
NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
FOUND FOOTBALL PLAYERS AT
NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY QUALIFY
AS EMPLOYEES.
THAT MAKES THEM ELIGIBLE TO
UNIONIZE.UIWANTT
GUARANTEED MEDICAL COVERAGE AND
COMMERCIAL DEALS.
WE'LL EXPLORE THIS
IN DETAIL LATER IN THE PROGRAM.
NISSAN IS RECALLING NEARLY A
MILLION VEHICLES BECAUSE OF
POTENTIALLY FAULTY AIR BAGS.
AFFECTED MODELS INCLUDE THE
"ALTIMA", "LEAF", "PATHFINDER"
AND "SENTRA," FROM THE MODEL
YEARS 2013 AND 2014.
NISSAN SAYS COMPUTER SOFTWARE
MAY FAIL TO DETECT SOMEONE
SITTING IN THE PASSENGER SEAT,
SO THE AIR BAG WON'T INFLATE.
>> Ifill: WALL STREET FELL BACK
TODAY.
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
LOST NEARLY 99 POINTS TO CLOSE
JUST UNDER 16,269.
THE NASDAQ FELL 60 POINTS TO
CLOSE AT 4,173.
AND THE S-AND-P 500 DROPPED 13
POINTS TO FINISH AT 1,852.
>> Ifill: STILL TO COME ON THE
NEWSHOUR:
PRESIDENT OBAMA'S FORCEFUL WORDS
FOR RUSSIA; UKRAINE'S CORRUPT
PAST AND ITS MURKY FUTURE;
EXTENDING THE DEADLINE TO SIGN
UP FOR HEALTH INSURANCE; OUR
CONVERSATION WITH FORMER
PRESIDENT JIMMY CARTER; A RULING
THAT MIGHT REVOLUTIONIZE COLLEGE
SPORTS; AND, FACEBOOK'S
$2 BILLION BET ON VIRTUAL
REALITY.
>> Woodruff: PRESIDENT OBAMA MET
WITH EUROPEAN UNION LEADERS IN
BRUSSELS TODAY AND AGREED TO
THE EXTENSION IS THE LATEST PART
OF A YEAR-LONG PUSH TO TRY TO
GET THOSE 6 MILLION PEOPLE
SIGNED UP.
FOR AN UPDATE ON WHAT'S WORKING
AND WHAT'S NOT, WE TURN TO MARY
AGNES CAREY OF KAISER HEALTH
NEWS, AN INDEPENDENT
ORGANIZATION, AND CECI CONNOLLY,
MANAGING DIRECTOR OF HEALTH
INSTITUTE AT
PricewaterhouseCoopers WHICH
WORKS WITH INSURERS AND OTHERS
IN THE HEALTHCARE INDUSTRY.
MARY AGNES, WHAT'S THE
JUSTIFICATION FOR THE DELAY?
>> THEY SAY IT'S BASICALLY AKIN
TO ELECTION DAY.
IF YOU'RE AT THE POLLING PLACES
AT THE TIME IT CLOSES AND IN
LINE YOU GET TO COMPLETE THE
PROCESS.
THEY WANT TO ALLOW PEOPLE WHO
ARE IN THE PROCESS TO COMPLETE
IT.
BUT YOU GET TO SELF ATTEST.
YOU GET TO TELL GOVERNMENT YES,
I TRIED TO ENROLL BEFORE
MARCH 31 BUT IT DIDN'T WORK SO I
NEED MORE TIME.
>> Reporter: WHY WOULD THEY
NEED TO EXTEND IT?
BECAUSE THEY'RE NOT HITTING THE
NUMBERS AND GETTING THE PEOPLE
THEY WANT TO INVOLVED?
>> THEY SAY THEY'VE MADE
IMPROVEMENTS TO THE WEB SITE AND
WORKING SMOOTHLY.
WEB SITE TRAFFIC IS UP.
THE LAST-MINUTE SURGE THEY
EXPECT, IF THEY HAVE ANY
PROBLEMS, THEY WANT TO MAKE SURE
THEY CAN COMPLETE THE
APPLICATION.
>> Reporter: CECI, WE HAVE
BEEN WATCHING THE PUSH THE
ADMINISTRATION IS GOING ON
COMEDY PROGRAMS, RADIO, SPANISH
LANGUAGE INTERVIEWS, YOU NAME
IT.
AS A RESULT, WHO HAS ENROLLED
AND WHO HAS NOT?
>> WE'RE STILL WATCHING FOR THE
BREAKDOWNS, GWEN, BUT WE HAVE
BEEN OBSERVING A SHIFT IN THE
ENROLL MEANT PATTERNS EVER SINCE
THINGS STARTED BUMPILY ON
OCTOBER IS.
THE FIRST FEW MONTHS THE
ENROLLMENT TENDED TO BE SOMEWHAT
OLDER PEOPLE, 40s, UPPER
50s.
SONS JANUARY, WE'VE SEEN AN
INCREASE IN YOUNGER ADULTS,
18-34 AGE GROUP, AND THERE'S SO
MUCH ATTENTION BEING PLACED ON
THE YOUNG INVINCIBLES RIGHT NOW
BECAUSE WE BELIEVE THAT THEY'RE
PROBABLY HEALTHIER AND THEY'RE
GOING TO SPREAD OUT THE RISK.
RIGHT NOW IT LOOKS --
>> Ifill: THAT WILL PAY FOR
THE HEALTHCARE.
>> ABSOLUTELY AND NOT HAVE TOO
MANY HEALTH EXPENSES IN THE NEAR
FUTURE.
WE'RE AT ABOUT 25% TO 27% OF
TOTAL ENROLLMENT IS THAT AGE
GROUP.
>> Ifill: LET'S GO TO THE
SELF-ATTESTING PART OF THE
EXTENSION TODAY, MARY AGNES.
IT SOUNDS LIKE IF YOU JUST
WEREN'T THINKING ABOUT IT OR
WERE JUST PLAIN LATE AND DECIDE
TO GO ON THE HEALTHCARE SITE ON
APRIL 2 FOR THE FIRST TIME, YOU
CAN JUST SAY YOU WERE TRYING TO
APPLY AND NOBODY'S GOING TO
CHECK THAT?
>> THAT'S WHAT THEY WERE ASKED
REPEATEDLY, HOW DO YOU VERIFY
IT.
THEY SAY THEY BELIEVE MOST
PEOPLE ARE TRUTHFUL ON THIS KIND
OF APPLICATION AND WOULD BE
TRUTHFUL ABOUT THE FACT THEY ARE
IN BEFORE THE 31st OF MARCH
BUT THAT IS THE CRITICISM YOU
CAN GET ON WELL AFTER THAT AND
CHECK THE BOX ON THE
APPLICATION.
>> Ifill: JOHN BOEHNER SAYS A
RULE IS A RULE EXCEPT THE
HEALTHCARE LAW.
>> THE EMPLOYER MANDATE HAVE
BEEN EXTENDED, THE RISK POOLS
HAVE BEEN EXTENDED, THERE'S BEEN
A VARIETY OF EXTENSIONS BUT NO
ONE WILL TAKE THEM SERIOUSLY
ANYMORE.
>> Ifill: LET'S TAKE ONE
POPULATION GROUP THEY HAVE BEEN
TARGETING AND THAT'S LATINOS.
YOU TALK ABOUT THE BUMBLEY
WEB SITE, THE SPANISH PART
WASN'T WORKING.
IS THERE ANY EVIDENCE THEY'RE
COMING AROUND?
>> SLOW AND SMALL, GWEN.
WE KNEW GOING IN THAT WAS ALWAYS
GOING TO BE A CHALLENGING
STARTING POPULATION.
NOT ONLY BECAUSE OF LANGUAGE
BARRIERS, BUT ALSO IN THAT
POPULATION WE SOMETIMES SEE SOME
SKEPTICISM ABOUT SIGNING UP FOR
SOMETHING THAT LOOKS LIKE A
GOVERNMENT PROGRAM.
WE HAD SEEN THAT THEY CAN BE
HARD TO REACH IF MAYBE THEY
DON'T HAVE A HOME COMPUTER, THEY
MAY NOT BE ON THE INTERNET
GETTING EMAIL MESSAGES, GETTING
SOCIAL MEDIA MESSAGES.
SO YOU'VE GOT TO GET INTO THE
COMMUNITY, KNOCK ON DOORS, GO TO
CHURCHES, ET CETERA, TO REACH
THESE INDIVIDUALS.
>> Ifill: MARY AGNES, IS THERE
ALSO CONCERNS IN ONE OF THE
PRESIDENT'S INTERVIEWS, HE
SPECIFICALLY SAID IMMIGRATION IS
NOT GOING TO COME AFTER YOU IF
YOU SIGN UP.
IS THAT A CONCERN?
>> THAT IS DEFINITELY A CONCERN
THAT IF YOU'RE IN THE COUNTRY TO
BE PENALIZED, IF YOU APPLY FOR
HEALTHCARE COVERAGE.
THE PRESIDENT'S GONE OUT OF HIS
WAY TO ASSURE FOLKS THAT'S NOT
THE CASE.
>> Ifill: IS THE 6 MILLION
WITHIN REACH?
>> WHEN THEY HAD THE PROBLEM
WITH THE WEB SITE THE
CONGRESSIONAL OFFICE PUT THE
NUMBER AT 6 MILLION.
IF YOU GET YOUNGER, HEALTHIER
PEOPLE IN, THAT HELPS, YOU CAN
HAVE OLDER, HEALTHIER PEOPLE IN,
DEPENDS ON WHO IS SIGNED UP AND
WHAT IS THE EXPERIENCE WITH THE
PEOPLE.
>> Ifill: HOW ARE INSURERS
RESPONDING?
SEEMS LIKE THE BALL KEEPS MOVING
FURTHER AND FURTHER AWAY.
THAT'S NOT THE CERTAINTY MANY
BUSINESS PEOPLE LOVE.
>> BUSINESS PEOPLE PREFER
CERTAINTY, GWEN.
THERE'S VERY LITTLE DOWNSIDE TO
TODAY'S ANNOUNCEMENT BECAUSE
THEY'RE GOING TO GET ADDITIONAL
PAYING CUSTOMERS AND THAT'S
ALWAYS BEEN WHY THE INSURANCE
INDUSTRY AND HOSPITALS HAVE BEEN
RELATIVELY SUPPORTIVE OF THE
AFFORDABLE CARE ACT.
IT IS THE PROSPECT OF MANY
MILLIONS MORE NEW PAYING
CUSTOMERS, AND THERE'S A BELIEF
THAT, IF WE THOUGHT MORE TO HAVE
THE OLDER, SICKER PEOPLE SIGN UP
IN THE EARLY MONTHS THAT THESE
EXTRA WEEKS ARE JUST GOING TO
BRING IN YOUNGER AND HEALTHIER,
THAT'S ALL POSITIVE FOR THE
INSURANCE INDUSTRY.
SO A COUPLE EXTRA WEEKS TO BRING
IN MORE YOUNG HEALTHYS, VERY
GOOD NEWS FOR THEM.
>> Ifill: MARY AGNES, YOU JUST
TALKED ABOUT MORE PAYING
CUSTOMERS.
IS THERE ANY MEASUREMENT THAT'S
BEEN HANDED OUT ABOUT WHETHER
PEOPLE ARE ACTUALLY PAYING
PREMIUMS YET OR WHETHER THEY'RE
JUST SIGNED UP?
>> WE DON'T KNOW THAT.
THAT'S A PROBLEM WITH THE BACK
END OF THE WEB SITE.
THE FRONT END IS THE CONSUMER
EXPERIENCE, YOU GET ON AND
ENROLL.
THE BACK END IS THE INSURANCE TO
THE INSURANCE COMPANY AND THE
INSURANCE COMPANY RESPONDING TO
THE GOVERNMENT TO SAY WHO'S
ENROLLED, HAVE THEY PAID THE
FIRST MONTH'S PREMIUM AND WE EAR
WAITING ON THE STATISTICS.
>> WE HAVE BEEN TALKING TO A
NUMBER OF INSURERS.
LOOKING LIKE 70 TO 80% PAYMENT
IN THE FIRST FEW MONTHS WHICH IS
COMPARABLE TO ANY OTHER
INSURANCE MARKET.
SO SO FAR IT APPEARS TO BE
TRACKING WITH NORMAL BUSINESS.
>> Ifill: A LITTLE NEWS YOU
CAN USE.
IF YOU ARE SOMEONE WHO HAS NOT
SIGNED UP, YOU HAVE BEEN MEANING
TO, HAVE BEEN PUTTING IT OFF AND
YOU GO ONLINE, WHAT DO YOU HAVE
TO DO?
IS THERE A PENALTY THAT KICKS IN
AFTER APRIL 15th OR IS THERE
NEVER GOING TO BE A PENALTY
BECAUSE THE LINE WILL KEEP
CHANGING?
>> THE PEOPLE THAT EXISTS NOW IS
$95 OR 1% OF INCOME IN THE FIRST
YEAR FOR AN INDIVIDUAL.
AND PEOPLE OFTEN FORGET ABOUT
THE 1% OF INCOME BECAUSE IT'S
WHICHEVER FIGURE IS HIGHER.
THAT'S CERTAINLY SOMETHING TO
THINK ABOUT.
BUT IF YOU WANT TO ENROLL IN
COVERAGE, MAYBE OUGHT TO GO ON
THE WEB SITE TODAY, SEE WHAT
YOUR OPTIONS ARE, CAN YOU GET A
SUBSIDY, THERE IS DIFFERENT
TIERS OF COVERAGE.
UNDER 30, YOU CAN GET A
CATASTROPHIC PLAN.
YOU MIGHT FIND SOMETHING THAT
WORKS FOR YOU.
>> CECI CONNOLLY, MARY AGNES
CAREY, KAISER HEALTH NEWS.
THANK YOU SOME.
>> THANKS, GWEN.
HIS NEWEST BOOK IS "A CALL TO
ACTION:  WOMEN, RELIGION,
VIOLENCE AND POWER."
I SPOKE WITH HIM LATE TODAY
ABOUT THE COMMITMENT BY HIM AND
THE CARTER CENTER TO FIGHT
DISCRIMINATION AND VIOLENCE
AGAINST WOMEN AND GIRLS AROUND
THE WORLD.
THAT FOLLOWED OUR TALK ABOUT
CURRENT NEWS DEVELOPMENTS.
PRESIDENT JIMMY CARTER, THANK
YOU VERY MUCH FOR JOINING US.
>> GOOD TO BE WITH YOU AGAIN.
THANKS FOR LETTING ME COME.
>> Woodruff: WE'RE HERE TO
TALK ABOUT YOUR BOOK BUT FIRST A
FEW QUESTIONS ABOUT WHAT'S IN
THE NEWS STARTING ABOUT UKRAINE.
DO YOU BELIEVE THAT
PRESIDENT PUTIN AND RUSSIANS ARE
PAYING ENOUGH PRICE FOR TAKE
CRIMEA?
>> JUDY, I NEVER THOUGHT
ANYTHING COULD HAVE DETERRED
PUTIN FROM TAKING CRIME.  I
CAN'T NO MATTER WHAT THE WESTERN
WORLD WOULD HAVE DONE, HE WOULD
HAVE DONE THIS.
WESTERNERS ALWAYS CONSIDERED
CRIMEA TO BE PART OF UKRAINE AND
UKRAINE PART OF RUSSIA, SO THAT
WAS INEVITABLE.
BUT I THINK HE HAS TO BE STOPPED
AND PREVENTED FROM FURTHER
MILITARY ACTION.
I DON'T THINK HE'S GOING TO.
I MAY BE WRONG, BUT I DON'T
THINK HE'S GOING TO.
I WATCHED HIS SPEECH VERY
CAREFULLY AND I THINK HE'S GOING
TO SEDUCE THE EASTERN UKRAINIANS
WHO SPEAK RUSSIAN ABOUT HOW
ATTRACTIVE RUSSIA IS BY
BANISHMENTS AND LOANS AND GRANTS
AND CONCESSIONS.
>> Woodruff: BUT YOU DON'T
THINK ANY FURTHER PUNISHMENT FOR
TAKING CRIMEA SHOULD HAPPEN?
>> I DON'T THINK SO.
BUT I THINK IF HE ESCALATES,
THEN YES.
BUT AT THIS POINT, I DON'T THINK
SO.
>> Woodruff: WHAT IF HE DOES
GO INTO ANOTHER COUNTRY, WHAT
SHOULD HAPPEN?
>> I DON'T WANT TO TELL PEOPLE
WANT TO KNOW IF OFFICE, BUT I
REMEMBER WHEN THE SOVIETS
INVADED AFGHANISTAN CHRISTMAS
DAY, 1979, I WAS VERY FORCIBLE
BECAUSE I SAW THE DANGER OF THEM
GOING FORWARD.
AND I SAID TO THE PRESIDENT OF
RUSSIA WE WOULD TAKE MILITARY
ACTION.
I WENT TO MY AMBASSADOR AND
PREPARED AN EMBARGO AND BEGAN TO
ARM THE FREEDOM FIGHTERS IN
AFGHANISTAN REPELLING THE SOVIET
TROOPS.
THAT TOOK BOLD AND AGGRESSIVE
ACTIONS, SOME OF WHICH I THINK
WOULD BE EXCESSIVE NOW.
>> Woodruff: EXCESS I?
I THINK SO.
>> Woodruff: SHOULD NOT HAPPEN
TODAY?
>> I THINK IT WOULD BE JUSTIFIED
TO ARM THE UKRAINIAN MILITARY
EFFECTIVELY AND LET EVERYBODY
KNOW THEY'RE BEING ARMED, YES.
>> Woodruff: THERE'S A WHOLE
LOT TO TALK ABOUT WITH UKRAINE
BUT THERE ARE A NUMBER OF OTHER
THINGS I WANT TO ASK YOU ABOUT.
SO MUCH OF YOUR PRESIDENCY WAS
DEVOTED TO MAKING PEACE IN THE
MIDDLE EAST.
YOU WERE RESPONSIBLE AND ANWAR
SADAT ABOUT CAMP DAVID PEACE
ACCORDS.
NOW SECRETARY OF STATE JOHN
KERRY VERY FOCUSED ON THAT AREA.
DO YOU THINK HE'S MAKING
PROGRESS?
>> HE'S MAKING MORE PROGRESS
THAN HAS BEEN MADE IN THE LAST
ARS AND DONE IT
ALMOST ON HIS OWN APPARENTLY AND
I STAY IN TOUCH WITH HIM.
I GIVE HIM SOME SUBTLE ADVISE BY
EMAIL WHAT I THINK MIGHT BE
DONE, BUT I HOME THAT HE WILL BE
BOLD AND AGGRESSIVE AND LAY DOWN
A SO-CALLED BENCHMARK OR WORKING
PROCESS BY WHICH THEY CAN BE --
BOTH SIDES CAN BE PERSUADED.
BUT I THINK THAT HE BY HIMSELF
CAN'T DO ANYTHING IN ORTD BE
EFFECTIVE AT LEAST IN ISRAEL,
THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED
STATES HAS TO BE DIRECTLY
INVOLVED AND GET THE WHOLE
WEIGHT OF THE UNITED STATES
GOVERNMENT BEHIND ANY
CONTROVERSIAL PROPOSAL.
IN THAT CASE, I THINK THEY HAVE
A CHANCE TO SUCCEED.
>> Woodruff: YOU TOLD CHARLIE
ROSE IN AN INTERVIEW LAST NIGHT
YOU DON'T THINK THE PALESTINIANS
WILL EVER AGREE TO THE ISRAELI
DEMAND THAT IT BE DECLARED A
JEWISH STATE, AND YOU SAID THAT
YOU DIDN'T THINK THE ISRAELIS
WOULD EVER AGREE TO GIVE THE
PALESTINIANS RIGHT OF RETURN.
I MEAN, THAT BASICALLY SAYS THE
CURRENT TALKS AREN'T GOING
ANYWHERE.
>> WELL, I DON'T KNOW WHICH WILL
BE PROPOSED BY SECRETARY KERRY,
BUT I THINK IT'S ALMOST POSSIBLE
FOR AN ARAB WHO LIVES IN THE
WEST BANK TO AGREE THAT ISRAEL
IS A JEWISH STATE BECAUSE ABOUT
A FOURTH OF THE POPULATION OF
ISRAEL ITSELF ARE ARABS AND THEY
CAN'T DENY THEIR OWN FELLOW
MUSLIMS JUST BECAUSE THEY LIVE
ACROSS THE BORDER.
I NEVER THOUGHT IT WAS POSSIBLE
FOR PALESTINIANS BE PERMITTED TO
COME BACK INTO ISRAEL IN AN
UNRESTRAINED WAY.
I THINK THE BEST IS FOR THEM TO
GO TO THE WEST BANK AND GAZA AND
TO PAY ISRAEL, IF THE
INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY DECIDES
TO, SOME REPARATIONS FOR THE
PROPERTY LOST.
>> Woodruff: THE SPYING BY THE
U.S. GOVERNMENT.
IT'S A STORY VERY MUCH IN THE
NEWS THESE DAYS.
WE LEARNED MORE THIS WEEK ABOUT
WHAT THEY'RE DOING BUT YOU SAID
IN AN INTERVIEW IN THE LAST FEW
DAYS THAT YOU EXPECT THAT THE
N.S.A., THE GOVERNMENT'S BEEN
LOOKING AT YOUR E-MAILS,
LISTENING TO YOUR PHONE CALLS,
SO WHEN YOU HAVE SOMETHING
IMPORTANT TO SAY, YOU SAY YOU
SEND IT BY SNAIL MAIL.
WILL R YOU SURE NO ONE IS
READING YOUR SNAIL MAIL?
>> I CAN'T GUARANTEE THAT BUT I
DON'T FEEL PARANOID ABOUT IT,
BUT IT'S BEEN GENERALLY
ACKNOWLEDGED THAT EVERY
TELEPHONE CALL MADE, EVERY ONE
THAT YOU MAKE, EVERY ONE THAT
YOU RECEIVE BY EMAIL INCLUDED,
IS RECORDED, AND THEY CLAIM THAT
THEY DON'T READ THOSE MESSAGES
BUT THEY KNOW THAT YOU MADE THE
CALL AND TO WHOM YOU MADE IT AND
HOW LONG IT LASTED AND THAT THEY
LATER WANT TO SEE YOUR
PARTICULAR CALLS, THEY CAN DO
SO.
I THINK THAT'S VERY EXCESSIVE.
AND I HAD TO DEAL WITH THAT WHEN
I WAS PRESIDENT AS WELL BY
PASSING AN ACT DESIGNED TO
PREVENT ANY AMERICAN
INTELLIGENCE AGENCY FROM
MONITORING ANY SINGLE CALL OF AN
AMERICAN AND, NOW, OF COURSE,
THEY RECORD THEM ALL.
>> Woodruff: THE BOOK, "A CALL
TO ACTION:  WOMEN, RELIGION,
VIOLENCE AND POWER."
YOU'VE SAID THIS IS THE MOST
IMPORTANT BOOK YOU'VE EVER
WRITTEN.
>> IT IS.
>> Woodruff: WHY?
BECAUSE CRIMES AGAINST WOMEN
AND GIRLS EXCEED ALMOST ANYTHING
I'VE KNOWN IN MY LIFETIME AS FAR
AS HUMAN RIGHTS ABUSES AND IT
GOES ALL THE WAY FROM INTENSE
COMMITMENT OF SLAVERY, HUMAN
TRAFFICKING IN THIS COUNTRY AND
AROUND THE WORLD.
ABOUT 100,000 GIRLS IN THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA HAVE
BEEN SOLD INTO SLAVERY LAST YEAR
ACCORDING TO THE STATE
DEPARTMENT.
800,000 IN THE WORLD ACROSS
INTERNATIONAL BORDERS.
AND I THINK THE MOST HORRIBLE
STATISTIC THAT'S INCLUDED IN
THIS IS QUITE ACCURATE IS THAT
THERE HAVE BEEN ABOUT
160 MILLION LITTLE BABY GIRLS
KILLED IN THIS GENERATION BY
THEIR OWN PARENTS BECAUSE THEY
DIDN'T WANT TO HAVE GIRLS, THEY
WANTED BOYS.
>> Woodruff: BY ABORTION, YOU
MEAN?
>> THAT INCLUDES MOST RECENTLY
ABORTIONS BECAUSE NOW BY THE
ADVENT OF SONOGRAMS IN MOST
COUNTRIES THEY CAN DETECT THE
SEX OF A FETUS AND IT'S ABORTED,
OTHERWISE, THEY WAIT UNTIL THE
GIRL IS BORN AND STRANGLE HER TO
DEATH.
IT'S AN ENTIRE GENERATION OF
FEMALES THAT ARE NO LONGER
LIVING.
ABOUT 50 MILLION OR 60 MILLION
OF THESE IN CHINA AND INDIA.
THERE'S ONE AREA OVERINDIA FOR
EVERY 1,000 MEN LIVING WE HAVE
ONLY 650 WOMEN LIVING AND THEY
HAVE BEEN KILLED BY THEIR
PARENTS AND NOW THERE'S A GREAT
SHORTAGE OF BRIDES TO MARRY MEN
IN SOME OF THESE COUNTRIES --
CHINA, EVEN SOUTH KOREA, AND
WOMEN ARE SOLD EXCESSIVELY AS
SLAVES AROUND THE WORLD.
>> Woodruff: I'M CURIOUS AT
THIS STAGE OF YOUR LIFE AND
CAREER WHY THIS IS SOMETHING YOU
WANT TO FOCUS ON.
THIS IS YOUR 28th BOOK.
>> THAT'S RIGHT.
>> Woodruff: WHY THIS AND WHAT
DO YOU THINK CAN BE DONE ABOUT
IT?
>> WELL, THE CARTER CENTER HAS
BEEN ACTIVE IN 79 COUNTRIES
AROUND THE WORLD, VERY ACTIVE,
WE'VE HAD SPECIFIC PROJECTS IN
THAT MANY COUNTRIES AND A LOT
ARE IN THE DEVELOPING WORLD AND
WE'VE SEEN THE DEPRIVATION OF
WOMEN'S RIGHTS MUCH MORPH NAN IN
THE UNITED STATES WITH GENITAL
MUTILATION CUTTINGS, KILLINGS
AND THINGS LIKE THAT.
SO THIS TO ME IS A THING THAT I
MIGHT DO IN THE REMAINING YEARS
OF MY LIFE THAT WOULD BEAR THE
RICHEST DIVIDENDS IF I COULD
JUST GE GET TO THE WORLD THE FAS
AND GET US TO ACT.
EVERY CRIME AGAINST FEMALES
MENTIONED IN THIS BOOK, I HAVE
SPECIFIC RECOMMENDATIONS ON WHAT
WE CAN DO PARTICULARLY IN THE
UNITED STATES.
>> Woodruff: YOU ARE SAYING
THIS IS SOMETHING YOU WANT TO
CONTINUE?
>> I WILL CONTINUE THAT AS LONG
AS I LIVE AND I WANT THE CARTER
CENTER TO BE A CENTER FOR PEOPLE
WHO WANT TO JOIN WITH US IN THIS
CREW SAID TO PROTECT WOMEN AND
GIRLS.
THE UNITED STATES IS VERY
CULPABLE.
YOU KNOW, NOT ONLY DO WE DEPRIVE
WOMEN OF EQUAL PAY BUT ON OUR
UNIVERSITY CAMPUSES, WE HAVE
PROBABLY THE WORST SEXUAL ABUSE
OF ANY OTHER PLACE IN AMERICA.
ONLY 4% T
CAMPUSES EVEN REPORTED BECAUSE
THE COLLEGE -- THE UNIVERSITY
PRESIDENTS OF THE GREATEST
UNIVERSITIES DON'T WANT TO
REPORT SEXUAL ABUSE ON THEIR
CAMPUSES BECAUSE IT BRINGS
DISCREDIT TO THEM, SO THEY
DISCOURAGE FEMALE STUDENTS FROM
REPORTING RAPES.
WHAT THIS DOES IS RESULT IN A
FEW MEN ON THE CAMPUS WHO KNOW
THEY CAN RAPE A GIRL WITH
IMPUNITY BECAUSE THEY'RE NOT
GOING TO BE REPORTED AND IF THEY
ARE REPORTED, THEY'RE NOT GOING
TO BE CRIMINALLY PROSECUTED FOR
IT.
THE SAME THING APPLIES AS YOU
WELL KNOW IN OUR U.S. MILITARY.
>> Woodruff: PRESIDENT JIMMY
CARTER NOT SHYING AWAY FROM THE
TOUGH, TOUGH SUBJECTS OUT THERE.
THANK YOU FOR BEING WITH US.
>> I THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: PRESIDENT OBAMA MET
WITH EUROPEAN UNION LEADERS IN
BRUSSELS TODAY AND AGREED TO
PREPARE POSSIBLE TOUGHER
ECONOMIC SANCTIONS AGAINST
RUSSIA.
IN A SPEECH A FEW HOURS LATER,
THE PRESIDENT CALLED ON
EUROPEANS TO MEET THE CHALLENGE
OF THIS MOMENT AND NOT TAKE
THEIR FREEDOMS FOR GRANTED, EVEN
AS HE CRITICIZED RUSSIA'S
LEADERS.
HERE ARE SOME EXCERPTS FROM HIS
REMARKS.
RUSSIA'S LEADERSHIP IS
CHALLENGING TRUTHS THAT ONLY A
FEW WEEKS AGO SEEMED
SELF-EVIDENT.
WITHIN THE 21st CENTURY, THE
BORDERS OF EUROPE CANNOT BE
REDRAWN WITH FORCE.
BUT INTERNATIONAL LAW MATTERS.
THE PEOPLE AND NATIONS MAKE
THEIR OWN DECISIONS ABOUT THEIR
FUTURE.
OUR OWN BORDERS ARE NOT
THREATENED BY RUSSIA'S
ANNEXATION.
BUT THAT KIND OF CASUAL
INDIFFERENCE WOULD IGNORE THE
LESSONS THAT ARE WRITTEN IN THE
CEMETERIES OF THIS CONTINENT.
IT WOULD ALLOW THE OLD WAY OF
DOING THINGS TO REGAIN A
FOOTHOLD IN THIS YOUNG CENTURY,
AND THAT MESSAGE WOULD BE HEARD
NOT JUST IN EUROPE BUT IN ASIA,
IN THE AMERICAS AND AFRICA, IN
THE MIDDLE EAST.
THIS IS NOT ANOTHER COLD WAR
THAT WE'RE ENTERING INTO.
AFTER ALL, UNLIKE THE SOVIET
UNION, RUSSIA LEADS NO BLOC OF
NATIONS, NO GLOBAL IDEOLOGY.
THE UNITED STATES AND NATO DO
NOT SEEK ANY CONFLICT WITH
RUSSIA.
IN FACT, FOR MORE THAN 60 YEARS,
WE'VE COME TOGETHER IN NATO NOT
TO CLAIM OTHER LANDS BUT TO KEEP
NATIONS FREE.
WHAT WE WILL DO, ALWAYS, IS
UPHOLD OUR SOLEMN OBLIGATION,
OUR ARTICLE 5 DUTY TO DEFEND THE
SOVEREIGNTY AND INTEGRITY OF OUR
ALLIES AND IN THAT PROMISE WE
WILL NEVER WAIVE.
NO NATIONS EVER STAND ALONE.
IT IS ABSURD TO SUGGEST AS A
STEADY DRUM BEAT OF RUSSIAN
VOICES DO THAT AMERICA IS
CONSPIRING WITH FASCISTS INSIDE
YOU CAN BY FAILING TO RESPECT
THE RUSSIAN PEOPLE.
MY GRANDFATHER SERVED IN
PATTON'S ARMY, JUST AS MANY OF
YOUR FATHERS AND GRANDFATHERS
FOUGHT AGAINST FASCISM.
WE AMERICANS REMEMBER WELL THE
UNIMAGINABLE SACRIFICES MADE BY
THE RUSSIAN PEOPLE IN WORLD
WAR II, AND WE HAVE HONORED
THOSE SACRIFICES.
WE WANT THE RUSSIAN PEOPLE TO
LI SECURITY, PROSPERITY AND
DIGNITY LIKE EVERYONE ELSE,
PROUD OF THEIR OWN HISTORY.
BUT THAT DOES NOT MEAN THAT
RUSSIA CAN ONE ROUGH UH SHOD --
ROUGHSHOD OVER ITS NEIGHBORS.
JUST BECAUSE RUSSIA HAS A DEEP
HISTORY WITH UKRAINE DOES NOT
MEAN IT SHOULD BE ABLE TO
DICTATE UKRAINE'S FUTURE.
NO AMOUNT OF PROPAGANDA CAN MAKE
RIGHT SOMETHING THAT THE WORLD
KNOWS IS WRONG.
THERE WILL BE ALWAYS VOICES TO
SAY WHAT HAPPENS IN THE WIDER
WORLD IS NOT OUR CONCERN.
NOR OUR RESPONSIBILITY.
BUT WE MUST NEVER FORGET THAT WE
ARE HEIRS TO A STRUGGLE FOR
FREEDOM.
>> Woodruff: RUSSIA'S TAKEOVER
OF CRIMEA AND OTHER POTENTIAL
MOVEMENTS IN UKRAINE AREN'T THE
ONLY PROBLEMS FACING KIEV'S NEW
GOVERNMENT.
TONIGHT, CHIEF FOREIGN AFFAIRS
CORRESPONDENT MARGARET WARNER
LOOKS AT THE CHALLENGES
THREATENING UKRAINE'S FUTURE AND
WHETHER ITS NEW LEADERSHIP IS UP
TO THE TASK.
>> Warner: THIS WAS VIKTOR
YANUKOVYCH'S PRIVATE WORLD,
MEZHIGOIE, 340 WOODED ACRES
NORTH OF KYIV.
WITH PRIVATE NAVY, HELICOPTER
HANGAR AND LANDING PAD, GOLF
COURSE AND EXOTIC ANIMAL ZOO.
GIVING US THE TOUR, DENIS
TARAKHKOTLYK, WHO'S BEEN
SECURING THE PLACE SINCE THE
UKRAINIAN PRESIDENT FLED THE
COUNTRY LAST MONTH.
>> ( translated ): PEOPLE WHO
ELECTED HIM HAVE COME FROM ALL
OVER THE COUNTRY TO SEE HOW HE
LIVED, THEY SAID THEY HEARD
ABOUT IT BUT COULDN'T BELIEVE
IT, AND WERE SHOCKED TO SEE IT.
>> Warner: INSIDE THE RECREATION
BUILDING: A BOWLING ALLEY,
TENNIS COURT, BILLIARD ROOM, AND
TROPHY ROOM IN TRIBUTE TO THE
MAN HIMSELF.
ALL GUARDED BY ANOTHER TROPHY.
DOWN AN UNDERGROUND PASSAGEWAY,
PAST THE FITNESS CENTER THE MAIN
HOUSE, IT'S GRAND ENTRY LIT BY A
CHANDELIER DOCUMENTED TO HAVE
COST $24 MILLION.
FOR UKRAINIANS WHO EARN JUST AN
AVERAGE OF $300 A MONTH, THIS
OPULENT PRIVATE PRESERVE HAS
BECOME SYNONYMOUS WITH THE
SYSTEM THEY WANTED TO SMASH.
IN COOPERATION WITH CORRUPT
PUBLIC LEADERS.
>> CORRUPTION IS A CANCER THAT
ALMOST EATS THE UKRAINIAN STATE
FROM WITHIN.
>> Warner: NEWLY-APPOINTED
FINANCE MINISTER PAVLO SHEREMETA
HAS BARELY HAD TIME TO MOVE INTO
HIS OFFICE, REPLACING PICTURES
OF YANUKOVYCH WITH PORTRAITS OF
THE MORE THAN 100 PROTESTORS
KILLED DURING THE FOUR-MONTH
LONG UPRISING IN KIEV'S
INDEPENDENCE SQUARE, THE MAIDAN.
>> Woodruff: HERE CORRUPTION SO
ENTANGLED BUSINESS INTERESTS
WITH GOVERNMENT.
HOW DO YOU DISENTANGLE THAT AT
EVERY SINGLE LAYER?
>> WELL, USING MY METAPHOR, WE
WOULD DO THE SURGERY.
IT'S VERY IMPORTANT TO KEEP THE
CURRENT PUBLIC OFFICIALS AND THE
ADMINISTRATORS UNDER VERY CLOSE
WATCH.
>> Warner: KEEPING THAT WATCH,
AS THEY HAVE SINCE LATE
NOVEMBER: DEMONSTRATORS WHO
REMAIN ON THE MAIDAN.
>> THIS WAS MY FRIEND AND
STUDENT, BOGDAN, KILLED FEBRUARY
20.
HE WAS MY FRIEND, HE WAS MY
STUDENT, AND HE WAS SHOT HERE BY
SNIPER.
>> Warner: HISTORY PROFESSOR
VOLODIMIR VIATROVICH CAME HERE
THE SECOND DAY OF THE PROTESTS,
DEMANDING AN AUDIT OF GOVERNMENT
COFFERS.
NOW HE COORDINATES THE GROUPS
THAT REMAIN TO HOLD THE NEW
GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABLE
>> ( translated ): WE ARE REALLY
VERY AFRAID OF THE FACT THAT THE
NEW AUTHORITIES WILL RENEW
CORRUPTION SCHEMES EQUAL TO THE
FORMER AUTHORITIES.
BUT WE HAVE TO GIVE THEM SOME
TIME TO WORK.
>> Warner: OTHERS ON THIS
SQUARE-TURNED-TENT CITY AREN'T
QUITE AS PATIENT.
23-YEAR-OLD DMITRO LUTSK, A
MEMBER OF A SELF-DEFENSE FORCE,
PREDICTS A SECOND UPRISING IF
THE NEW GOVERNMENT DOESN'T
DELIVER.
>> ( translated ): THERE WILL BE
TWICE MORE PEOPLE AND THIS
WE DIDN'T HAVE THAT INFLUENCE
BEFORE, BUT WE DO NOW."
>> Warner: DMITRY CHESNOKOV WHO
KEEPS GUARD AT NIGHT, SAID HE
JUST WANTS PEACE AND CALM.
BUT WHEN TALK TURNS TO RUSSIA'S
INVASION AND ANNEXATION OF
CRIMEA, HIS MOOD SWIFTLY TURNS.
>> I WANT THE DEATH FOR THEM,
FOR THE RUSSIANS TOO.
I WANT TO ATTACK THEM JT WHUSAT
HAPPENED IN CHECHNYA.
I WANT TO KILL THEM.
REALLY!
>> Warner: NOW, WITH CRIMEA
GONE, THE KIEV GOVERNMENT FACES
A NEW SECURITY THREAT: A LARGE
RUSSIAN FORCE MASSED ON
UKRAINE'S EASTERN BORDER, WHICH
FORMER MINISTER OF DEFENSE
ANATOLIY GRYTSENKO SEES IN THE
MOST MENACING TERMS.
>> WE ALL MUST UNDERSTAND THAT
PUTIN EQUALS HITLER.
IF THAT PERSON, MR. PUTIN, IS
CRAZY THEN WE CAN EXPECT
ANYTHING ANYTIME.
>> Warner: GRYTSENKO SAYS THIS
NEW GOVERNMENT, DESPITE ITS
BADLY-DEPLETED MILITARY, COULD
STILL DEFEND THE COUNTRY WITH
THE RIGHT SORT OF DEFENSE
LEADERSHIP AND ROBUST, LETHAL
MILITARY AID FROM U.S. AND
BRITAIN.
>> THOSE COUNTRIES BACK IN 1994
ENSURED SECURITY GUARANTEES FORT
UKRAINE WHEN WE HAD GIVEN UP OUR
NUCLEAR WEAPONS.
NOW WE SEE ONLY "SORRY, BLAH,
BLAH, BLAH."
WITH ALL RESPECT TO ECONOMIC
DIPLOMATIC EFFORTS, THESE
SANCTIONS DOESN'T WORK.
>> Warner: PRIME MINISTER
ARSENIY YATSENYUK HAS ASKED THE
U.S. AND N.A.T.O. FOR WEAPONS
AND AMMUNITION, AMONG OTHER
THINGS.
BUT U.S. AMBASSADOR GEOFFREY
PYATT SAYS UKRAINE'S MILITARY IS
IRRETRIEVABLY OUTMATCHED BY THE
HONED RUSSIAN FORCE THAT TOOK
CRIMEA.
>> THEY MOVED SWIFTLY WITH
OVERWHELMING FORCE TO DEFEAT THE
UKRAINIANS.
THERE IS NO MILITARY ANSWER TO
THAT.
IN THE SHORT TERM, THERE IS
NOTHING THAT WE CAN DO IN TERMS
OF MILITARY INVOLVEMENT OR
MILITARY ASSISTANCE THAT'S GOING
TO CHANGE THE BASIC REALITIES OF
GEOGRAPHY AND THE BALANCE OF
POWER BETWEEN UKRAINE AND
RUSIA.S
>> Warner: WHAT THE U.S. CAN DO
FOR UKRAINE, SAYS PYATT, IS HELP
IT WITH LONG-TERM ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT.
AND HE SEES GREAT PROMISE THERE.
>> YOU'VE GOT A BORDER WITH FOUR
E.U. MEMBER STATES, YOU'VE GOT
FABULOUS HUMAN RESOURCES,
AGRICULTURAL RESOURCES, SHALE
GAS.
WHAT UKRAINE HAS SUFFERED FROM
IS BAD GOVERNANCE AND THIS
REVOLUTION OF DIGNITY IS AN
OPPORTUNITY TO CORRECT THAT.
>> Warner: BUT UKRAINE'S ECONOMY
IS IN AS NEARLY-RAGGED SHAPE AS
ITS FORCES.
WITH TENS OF BILLIONS IN FOREIGN
DEBTS COMING DUE, ITS TREASURY
NEARLY EMPTY, AND THE MONTHS OF
UNREST AND UNCERTAINTY HAVE
FROZEN MUCH NEEDED FOREIGN
INVESTMENT.
MANY RESTAURANTS IN KYIV SIT
HALF-EMPTY.
THIS HAS PUT THE NEW GOVERNMENT
IN A RACE AGAINST TIME.
THAT KIEV POST DEPUTY EDITOR
KATYA GORCHINSKAYA ISN'T SURE
IT'S EQUIPPED TO WIN, COMING
INTO OFFICE JUST FOUR DAYS
BEFORE RUSSIA INVADED.
>> THAT IN ITSELF IS A HUGE
CHALLENGE EVEN FOR A TEAM IF THE
TEAM WAS WELL FITTED, WELL
SUITED, WELL COORDINATED, BUT
IT'S NOT.
IT'S A VERY, VERY MOTLEY CREW OF
PEOPLE OF DIFFERENT, YOU KNOW,
POLITICAL BACKGROUNDS.
THEY JUST GOT TOGETHER RIGHT
BEFORE AS A RESULT OF THE
REVOLUTION.
TO BE A GOOD REVOLUTIONARY IS
NOT THE SAME AS BEING A GOOD
BUREAUCRAT.
>> Warner: AMONG THAT MOTLEY
COALITION NOW HOLDING KEY
MINISTRIES, ONE FACTION THAT'S
CAUSED ALARM IN RUSSIAN-
DOMINATED EASTERN UKRAINE AND
BEYOND: THE RIGHT WING
NATIONALIST SVOBODA PARTY.
IT'S PARLIAMENTARY LEADER OLEH
TYAGNIBOK WAS ONCE QUOTED
BOASTING THAT UKRAINIANS FOUGHT
BRAVELY IN WORLD WAR II "AGAINST
MOSCOVITES, GERMANS, JEWS AND
OTHER SCUM."
DO YOU DISAVOW THAT NOW?
>> ( translated ): THAT'S WHAT I
SAID, BUT MY WORDS NOW, 10 YEAR
OLD WORDS, ARE BEING TWISTED BY
THOSE WHO PROFIT IT FROM IT.
THIS IS ALSO RUSSIAN PROPAGANDA.
WE ARE NEITHER FASCISTS, NOR
NAZIS.
>> Warner: WHAT'S SVOBODA'S
AGENDA?
>> IT'S VERY IMPORTANT FOR US TO
CONDUCT HONEST, TRANSPARENT,
FAIR ELECTIONS FOR PRESIDENT,
IT'S VERY IMPORTANT FOR US TO
RENEW PEOPLE'S TRUST IN
GOVERNMENT.
>> Warner: THAT ELECTION IN JUST
EIGHT WEEKS HOLDS PROMISE.
BUT GORCHINSKAYA ISN'T SURE HOW
LONG UKRAINIANS WILL WAIT FOR
THE CHANGE THEY'VE DEMANDED, AND
DIED FOR.
>> THE NATION IS NOW IN POST
TRAUMATIC SORT OF STRESS.
FIRST WE HAD REVOLUTION THAT
LASTED FOR FOUR MONTHS AND NOW
WE HAVE THE WAR, AND IT JUST
DOESN'T SEEM TO STOP
>> Warner: TO JUDGE THE LIMITS
OF PATIENCE WE VISITED THE
BEZVERHIY FAMILY, NDIS
EVEN THOUGH SHE DRAWS A PENSION,
MOTHER, TAMARA, BOTH DENTISTS;
IT WAS HER SIXTY-FIRST BIRTHDAY.
EVEN THOUGH SHE DRAWS A PENSION,
SHE STILL WORKS TOO.
ANDREY HAS HOPE:
>> THERE ARE NO CHANGES SO FAR,
BUT I SEE CHANGES IN PEOPLE'S
MENTALITY.
THEY HAVE STARTED TO FEEL SOME
KIND OF RESPONSIBILITY FOR THEIR
COUNTRY
>> Warner: AMONG THOSE
RESPONSIBILITIES, DEFENDING
UKRAINE.
THOUSANDS ARE FLOCKING TO
ENLIST.
OTHERS, RESERVISTS LIKE ANDREY,
ARE AWAITING CALL-UP NOTICES.
>> UNFORTUNATELY, NO ONE ASKS
MOM WHETHER SHE WANTS OR NOT.
IF THEY SAY THERE IS A NEED,
THEN YOU NEED TO GO.
I HAVE ONLY HIM, EVEN IF I HAD
FIVE OF HIM I WOULD HAVE PITY ON
EACH.
I AM WORRYING.
>> Warner: YET HIS MOTHER AGREES
THIS COUNTRY IS READY TO
DO MORE.
>> EVERY UKRAINIAN GENERATION
HAS HAD SOMETHING: WAR, FAMINE.
WE HAVE THIS FATE.
WE ARE EAGER TO TIGHTEN OUR
BELTS.
>> Warner: THIS TIME, UKRAINIANS
WANT TO DO MUCH MORE THAN ENDURE
THEIR LATEST TRAUMA, AND USE IT
TO FINALLY STAKE A CLAIM TO
THEIR OWN FUTURES.
>> Woodruff: AN IMPORTANT
DECISION ON A HUGE AND HOTLY
DEBATED QUESTION IN THE WORLD OF
COLLEGE SPORTS.
SHOULD STUDENT ATHLETES BE PAID?
A REGIONAL DIRECTOR OF THE
NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
RULED THAT FOOTBALL PLAYERS AT
NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY ARE
CONSIDERED EMPLOYEES OF THE
SCHOOL AND ARE THEREFORE
ENTITLED TO ORGANIZE A UNION.
THOSE PLAYERS ARE THE FIRST TO
SEEK UNION REPRESENTATION.
JEFFREY BROWN LOOKS AT THE
DETAILS OF THIS CASE AND THE
POTENTIAL IMPACT.
>> Brown: FOR NOW, THE RULING
APPLIES ONLY TO PRIVATE COLLEGES
AND UNIVERSITIES, BUT IT IS THE
FIRST OF ITS KIND.
AND THE DECISION IS EXPECTED TO
REVERBERATE MORE BROADLY.
THE RULING SAID THE UNIVERSITY'S
PRIMARY RELATIONSHIP WITH THE
FOOTBALL PLAYERS WAS AN ECONOMIC
ONE.
MICHAEL MCCANN IS DIRECTOR OF
THE UNIVERSITY OF NEW
HAMPSHIRE'S "SPORTS AND
ENTERTAINMENT LAW INSTITUTE,"
AND LEGAL ANALYST FOR "SPORTS
ILLUSTRATED" MAGAZINE.
HE JOINS US NOW.
THE KEY THING HERE MR. McCANN
IS THE FINDING THESE ATHLETES
QUALIFY AS EMPLOYEES, NOT JUST
STUDENTS.
EXPLAIN THAT AND WHY IT'S SO
IMPORTANT.
>> SURE.
IT'S IMPORTANT BECAUSE BY BEING
DECLARED EMPLOYEES, THE STUDENT
ATHLETES WOULD BE ABLE TO THEN
UNIONIZE AND ENTER INTO
COLLECTIVE BARGAINING WITH
NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY AND TRY
TO COMMAND SALARY BENEFITS BUT,
MORE THAN THAT, ALSO, BETTER
HEALTHCARE BENEFITS, DISABILITY
PAYMENTS, WORKERS' COMP.
THE TYPICAL BENEFITS THAT GO
ALONG WITH THE STATUS OF
EMPLOYMENT WHICH THEY CURRENTLY
DO NOT GET AS STUDENT ATHLETES.
>> Brown: GIVE US A LITTLE
BACKGROUND ON THIS PARTICULAR
CASE, THE STUDENTS AT
NORTHWESTERN, HOW THEY CAME TO
BRING THIS CASE AND WHAT THEY
WERE SAYING THEY WANTED.
>> SURE, SO THE STUDENTS ARE LED
BY QUARTERBACK, KING COLTER, WHO
SEVERAL MONTHS AGO DECIDED TO
PURSUE THE ABILITY OF HE AND
OTHERS COLLECTIVELY BARGAINING
WITH NORTHWESTERN, BUT TO GET TO
THAT STEP THEY HAD TO PETITION
THE NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS
BOARD, WHICH HAS THE LEGAL
AUTHORITY TO DECIDE WHETHER OR
NOT EMPLOYEES AT PRIVATE
EMPLOYERS, WHICH IN THIS CASE
WOULD INCLUDE NORTHWESTERN, HAVE
THE LEGAL RIGHT TO UNIONIZE
UNDER THE NATIONAL LABOR NATIONR
RELATIONS ACT.
THERE WERE THEN HEARINGS WHERE
HE TESTIFIED AND S.A.T. A NUMBER
OF THINGS, ONE OF WHICH IS HE
WORKS A LOT, IN HIS WORDS,
BETWEEN 40 AND 50 HOURS PER WEEK
WHEREAS NCAA RULES LIMIT THE
AMOUNT OF TIME STUDENT ATHLETES
CAN DEVOTE TO SPORTS TO EITHER
20 HOURS DURING THE VACCINES OR
8 HOURS DURING THE OFF VACCINES.
SO WHAT HE SAID WAS CONTRADICTED
IN TERMS OF WHAT THE NCAA RULES
WERE AND APPEARED THE REGIONAL
DIRECTOR SIDED CAN KING COLTER
ON THAT.
THE THESIS OF THE PLAYERS'
ARGUMENT ARE THAT THEY'RE
WORKING JUST NOT GETTING PAID.
THERE ARE COUNTER ARGUMENTS TO
THAT AND THE CASE IS BY NO MEANS
OVER BECAUSE THERE WILL BE AN
APPEAL TO THE NATIONAL LABOR
RELATIONS BOARD IN D.C. BUT AS A
FIRST STEP THIS IS A BIG
VICTORY.
>> Brown: THERE ARE
COUNTER ARGUMENTS FOR A LONG
TIME, MUCH OF IT FROM THE NCAA
ITSELF.
THEY SAID WE STRONGLY DISAGREE
WITH THE NOTION THAT STUDENT
ATHLETES ARE EMPLOYEES AND THEY
CONTINUE TO HEAR FROM STUDENT
ATHLETES THAT THEY PARTICIPATE
FOR THE LOVE OF THEIR SPORT, NOT
TO BE PAID.
THEY HAVE RESISTED THIS A LONG
TIME.
WHAT IS THE BRUNT OF THEIR
ARGUMENT?
>> WELL, THE BRUNT OF THE
ARGUMENT IS WHAT YOU NEED TO,
JEFFREY, THAT MANY STUDENT
ATHLETES ARE NOT COMMERCIALIZED
IN THE SENSE THAT THEY ARE
GENERATING LOTS OF REVENUE FOR
THEIR SCHOOL.
BUT WHEN WE LOOK AT ATHLETES
THAT ARE GENERATING THE REVENUE,
THEY TEND TO PLAY IN TWO SPORTS,
ONE OF WHICH IS BASKETBALL THE
OTHER IS COLLEGE FOOTBALL.
BUT THERE ARE MANY ATHLETES THAT
ARE NOT LIKE THAT, THAT ARE MORE
TRADITIONAL COLLEGE ATHLETES
THAT ARE PRIMARILY STUDENTS THAT
ALSO PLAY A SPORT.
THERE IS A DISCONNECT WHERE KING
COLTER IS REPRESENTING THE GROUP
THAT'S REALLY COMMERCIALIZED, ON
TELEVISION, GENERATING REVENUE
FOR NORTHWESTERN IN TERMS OF
TICKET SALES AND TELEVISION
DEALS, VIDEO GAME DEALS AND THE
LIKE AND, AS A RESULT, THE NCAA
IS FOCUSED MORE ON THOSE THAT
ARE NOT AS COMMERCIALIZED.
BUT I THINK IT'S IMPORTANT TO
STRESS THAT THERE IS A POTENTIAL
GENDER EQUITY HERE.
IF ONLY MALE ATHLETES ARE PAID,
I'M SURE THERE WILL BE FEMALE
ATHLETES THAT WILL BRING A
SEPARATE LAWSUIT UNDER TITLE 9
WHICH IS A FEDERAL LAW
COMMANDING GENERAL EQUITY IN
HIGHER EDUCATION INCLUDING
COLLEGE SPORTS.
>> Brown: THAT'S WHAT I WAS
WONDERING, WHEN YOU LOOK AT
THIS, AND IT IS ONE RULING,
GIVEN THAT, WHAT KIND OF BROADER
APPLICATIONS MIGHT FLOW FROM
THIS.
>> WELL, IF IT HOLDS, IT WOULD
HAVE BROADER APPLICATIONS IN
THAT STUDENT ATHLETES AT OTHER
PRIVATE INSTITUTIONS COULD THEN
RELY ON THIS DECISION AS
PRECEDENT AND SAY IF
NORTHWESTERN PLAYERS CAN
UNIONIZE, SO CAN WE.
AND IT COULD BE BASKETBALL
PLAYERS, TENNIS PLAYERS, YOU
NAME IT.
HOWEVER, STUDENT ATHLETES AT
PUBLIC UNIVERSITIES CAN'T RELY
ON THIS DECISION.
THE NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS ACT
ONLY GOVERNS PRIVATE EMPLOYEES,
NOT PUBLIC.
AS A RESULT, STUDENTS AT THE
UNIVERSITY OF ALABAMA, OTHER
STATE SCHOOLS -- OHIO STATE --
THEY'RE GOING TO HAVE TO RELY ON
THEIR STATE LAWS TO TRY TO
UNIONIZE AND SOME STATES, IN
FACT 24 STATES ARE CONSIDERED
RIGHT TO WORK STATES, STATES
THAT WOMEN ARE OUTRIGHT DENIED
THE ABILITY AS EMPLOYEES OF
PUBLIC UNIVERSITIES TO UNIONIZE.
SO IT COULD BE THAT STUDENT
ATHLETES AT PRIVATE UNIVERSITIES
CAN BE MEMBERS OF A UNION THAT
THOSE OF PUBLIC SCHOOLS CAN'T
INCLUDING SOME SCHOOLS IN THE
SOUTH, SOME BIG-TIME PROGRAMS.
>> Brown: MICHAEL McCANN,
UNIVERSITY OF NEW HAMPSHIRE,
THANKS SO MUCH.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> Woodruff: FINALLY TONIGHT,
LIKE OTHER FABLED TECH
CINDERELLA STORIES, THIS ONE
STARTED WITH A YOUNG MAN WITH AN
IDEA, WORKING OUT OF A GARAGE.
YESTERDAY, FACEBOOK ANNOUNCED IT
WOULD PAY $2 BILLION FOR OCULUS
V.R.
WHICH MAKES A VIRTUAL REALITY
HEADSET FOR VIDEO GAMES.
NEWSHOUR ECONOMICS CORRESPONDENT
PAUL SOLMAN RECENTLY FEATURED
THE COMPANY IN A PAIR OF REPORTS
ABOUT VIRTUAL REALITY.
WE START WITH THIS EXCERPT.
THE OCULUS RIFT IS HAILED THE
HOLY GRAIL OF GAMING, A LIGHT
WEIGHT FULL HEAD SET TO DELIVER
TOTALLY IMMERSIVE VIRTUAL
REALITY OR VR.
>> A LOT OF US GOT INTO THE
GAMES INDUSTRY TO BUILD VIRTUAL
WALLS AND EXPLORE NEAT PLACES
AND BEING ABLE TO STEP INSIDE
THOSE PLACES THE FIRST TIME IS
INCREDIBLY EXCITING.
>> NATE MITCHELL, OCULUS'
25-YEAR-OLD VICE PRESIDENT GAVE
ME A SNEAK PEEK AT THE HEADSET
DRIVING A ROBOT IN THE VIRTUAL
REALITY VERSION IN THE POST
APOCALYPSE GAME HAWK IT.
THE SPLIT SCREEN IMAGES, WHAT I
AM SEEING IN EACH EYE, DON'T
COME CLOSE TO CAPTURING THE
EXPERIENCE.
BUT WITH THE GOGGLES, I WAS
VIRTUALLY WITHIN HAWKINS' MAD
MAX WORLD.
>> Ifill: WE PICK UP THE STORY
FROM
>> Woodruff: HARI SREENIVASAN IS
IN OUR NEW YORK STUDIO,
AND PICKS UP THE STORY FROM
THERE.
>> Sreenivasan: VINDU GOEL
COVERS BOTH BIG AND SMALL
PLAYERS IN THE TECH INDUSTRY FOR
THE NEW YORK TIMES AND HE JOINS
ME NOW FROM SAN FRANCISCO.
>> WE ARE JOINED FROM
SAN FRANCISCO.
WHY DOES Facebook WANT TO MAKE
THIN INVESTMENT?
>> Facebook IS TRYING TO
FOLLOW THE EVOLUTION OF THE
SOCIAL PLATFORM.
INITIALLY WE SWAPPED INFORMATION
ON THE INTERNET, NOW WE USE OUR
MOBILE PHONES AND THEY'RE TRYING
TO THINK ABOUT WHAT IS THE NEXT
BIG PLATFORM THAT WE'RE GOING TO
USE TO SHARE WITH EACH OTHER AND
IT'S A FUTURISTIC VISION BUT
THEY THINK THAT ONE POSSIBILITY
IS WE WILL INTERACT WITH EACH
OTHER IN A VIRTUALWO COULD SPEAE
WE WERE IN THE SAME ROOM DURING
THIS INTERVIEW RIGHT NOW.
YOU COULD GO CLIMB THE GREAT
WALL OF CHINA AND SHOW YOUR
FAMILY BACK HOME WHAT THE
EXPERIENCE IS LIKE.
MAYBE WEARING THE HEADSETS AND
THEY'RE RIGHT THERE WITH YOU.
>> Reporter: VIRTUAL REALITY
HAS BEEN THE STUFF OF SCI-FI AND
THE NEXT BIG THING FOR THE LAST
15 TO 20 YEARS.
WHAT'S SO DIFFERENT NOW?
>> THE TECHNOLOGY HAS GOTTEN A
LOT BETTER AND CHEAPER.
THE COMPONENTS THAT YOU USE IN
YOUR CELL PHONE THAT LET YOU
TAKE GREAT VIDEO IMAGES, THOSE
ARE THE KINDS OF THINGS THAT ARE
NOW STARTING TO INCORPORATE IN
THE HEAD SETS.
THE TECHNOLOGY IS STILL A LONG
WAY FROM REALITY, THOUGH.
THIS PRODUCT, THE OCULUS RIFT,
THAT IS THE MAIN PRODUCT THAT
Facebook IS BUYING IS NOT EVEN
OUT YET.
IT MAY NOT BE OUT FOR ANOTHER
YEAR OR TWO FOR CUSTOMERS TO
ACTUALLY BE ABLE TO BUY.
SO THERE'S A LOT TO DO YET TO
PERFECT THE TECHNOLOGY.
THERE ARE SOME PEOPLE WHO STILL
SAY WE'RE STILL A LONG WAY AWAY.
>> Reporter: WHAT ABOUT THE
UNINTENDED SOCIAL CONSEQUENCES
OF TECHNOLOGY?
GIVEN GOOGLE HAS HAT SUCH A
TOUGH TIME CONVINCING
COMMUNITIES OF THE BEHAVIOR WITH
THE GOOGLE GLASS DEVICE.
>> I THINK THAT'S GOING TO BE A
BIG ISSUE.
IF YOU'VE SEEN AN OCULUS RIFT
IT'S LIKE WEARING A GIGANTIC
PLATE IN FRONT OF YOUR FACE AND
YOU CAN'T INTERACT WITH THE
WORLD THAT YOU'RE IN.
SO THAT'S ONE OF THE THINGS THAT
I THINK PEOPLE ARE GOING TO HAVE
TO FIGURE OUT ATHAS THEY'RE
USING THIS.
IF YOU'RE IN YOUR LIVING ROOM
AND YOU PUT ONE OF THOSE ON TO
ENTER A VIRTUAL WORLD, YOU'RE
NOT GOING TO BE ABLE TO INTERACT
WITH ANYBODY ELSE AROUND YOU AND
CERTAINLY WON'T WANT TO DO IT IN
THE STREET OR IN PUBLIC.
IT'S GOING TO BE PRETTY STRANGE
TO SEE YOU KIND OF COMPLETELY
TUNING OUT THE WORLD.
>> Reporter: WELL, ARE T TO
TAKE ADVANTAGE OF VIRTUAL
REALITY?
WE'VE SEEN EXAMPLES OF PEOPLE
WEARING THESE THAT GET OVER
THEIR FEAR OF HEIGHTS OR
POSTTRAUMATIC STRESS DISORDER,
BUT SOMETHING FOR THE MASS
AUDIENCE, WHY WOULD WE WANT
SOMETHING LIKE THIS?
>> THERE ARE SOME SPECIALIZED
APPLICATIONS LIKE YOU'RE TALKING
ABOUT.
THE MILITARY USES IT.
I THINK THE HOPE IS THAT,
EVENTUALLY, IN ADDITION TO
SOCIAL APPLICATIONS, SHARING
THINGS WITH YOUR FRIENDS, THAT
YOU WILL BE ABLE TO DO DISTANCE
LEARNING, YOU WILL BE ABLE TO
PARTICIPATE IN A CLASSROOM
VIRTUALLY FROM FAR AWAY AND
INTERACT WITH THE TEACHER AND
OTHER STUDENTS AS IF YOU WERE
ALL IN THE SAME ROOM.
MEDICINE IS A BIG AREA TO TEACH
MEDICAL STUDENTS WHAT IT'S LIKE
TO DO SURGERY OR OTHER MEDICAL
PROCEDURES WITHOUT ACTUALLY
HAVING TO CUT OPEN A HUMAN BEING
OR BE THERE IN PERSON TO WITNESS
IT.
SO THAT'S THE IDEA THAT DREAM OF
VIRTUAL REALITY IS THAT YOU WILL
BE ABLE TO DO ALL OF THESE
THINGS ON A COMPUTER AND FEEL
LIKE YOU'RE REALLY DOING THEM.
>> Reporter: JUST A BUSINESS
QUESTION, IS THERE A Facebook
BUBBLE OR EFFECT THAT'S
HAPPENING?
THEY PAID 19 BILLION FOR AN APP
RECENTLY AND A BILLION DOLLARS
FOR INSTAGRAM A WHILE AGO AND
NOW THIS.
>> MANY PEOPLE IN SILICON VALLEY
ARE WONDERING THE SAME THING.
YOU'RE SEEING THE PRICE TAGS FOR
THE STARTUPS TO GO HIGHER AND
HIGHER, $2 BILLION FOR A COMPANY
WITH NO PRODUCT AND A FUTURISTIC
TECHNOLOGY.
Facebook HAS A LOT OF MONEY TO
SPEND NOW, THOUGH, SO THEY SEE
IT AS A CHEAP BET THAT THIS
MIGHT BE THE TECHNOLOGY OF THE
FUTURE.
>> Reporter: ALL RIGHT, VINDU
GOEL FROM THE NEW YORK TIMES,
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY.
SEARCH TEAMS KEPT DIGGING IN THE
WASHINGTON STATE MUDSLIDE, AS
THE DEATH TOLL KEPT CLIMBING.
AND PRESIDENT OBAMA URGED
EUROPEANS TO RE-DEDICATE
THEMSELVES TO DEFENDING FREEDOM
IN THE FACE OF RUSSIA'S
ANNEXATION OF CRIMEA.
>> Ifill: ON THE NEWSHOUR ONLINE
RIGHT NOW, FOR A LARGE PORTION
OF THE COUNTRY, IT'S BEEN A
LONG, COLD AND SNOWY WINTER.
SO WHAT DOES THAT WILD WEATHER
LOOK LIKE FROM ABOVE?
WE ANIMATED THREE MONTHS OF
WINTER USING SATELLITE IMAGES
TAKEN ONCE EVERY HOUR.
TAKE A LOOK, IF YOU CAN BEAR, ON
OUR WEBSITE, newshour.pbs.org.
>> Woodruff: AND THAT'S THE
NEWSHOUR FOR TONIGHT.
ON THURSDAY, WE'LL LOOK AT
PRESIDENT OBAMA'S FIRST MEETING
WITH POPE FRANCIS.
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
>> Ifill: AND I'M GWEN IFILL.
WE'LL SEE YOU ON-LINE...
AND AGAIN HERE TOMORROW EVENING.
FOR ALL OF US HERE AT THE PBS
NEWSHOUR, THANK YOU AND GOOD
NIGHT